Task 1
security principles

Task 2
In the IAAA Model, IAAA stands for Identification, Authentication, Authorization, 
and Accountability. The four stages of the IAAA model are:
1) Identification: process of verifying who the user is . It starts with the user claiming a specific identity
.The identitiy can be represented by a unique identifier such as an email addressl username, ID number

identification can be achieved by national id number, student id number, passport number, mobile phone number


2)Authentication is the process of ensuring that the user is who they claim to be.
In other words, this step is about confirming the claimed identity. One way to authenticate would be by providing the correct password.

3)Authorisation determines what the user is allowed to access. In other words, they will be authorised to carry out specific operations based on their account privileges.
This process is typically done by assigning roles and permissions based on the user’s job function or level of clearance. The risk of unauthorised access or data breaches is reduced by restricting access to only the resources necessary for the user to perform their duties.

4)Accountability tracks user activity to ensure they are responsible for their actions.
After a user is granted access to a system, it is essential to have mechanisms that hold everyone accountable for their actions. This process is achieved by logging all user activity and storing it in a centralised location. 






---essential to understand the difference between authentication and identification.

During identification, the user (or system or process) claims a specific (unique) identity in the respective settings. Authentication is proving the identity of the user (or system or process). This process is usually accomplished through one of the following ways:

Something you know
Something you have
Something you are
Two more methods are used, although to a lesser degree:

Somewhere you are (logical/physical location)
Something you do (behaviour)



IDM
Identity management:IdM is an essential component of cybersecurity that refers to the process of managing and controlling digital identities. It involves the management of user identities, their authentication, authorisation, and access control. The main goal of IdM is to ensure that only authorised individuals have access to specific resources and information. IdM systems are used to manage user identities across an organisation’s network.

IdM systems use a centralised database to store user identities and access rights. 

IAM 
Identity and access management:IAM is a more comprehensive concept than IdM. It encompasses all the processes and technologies to manage and secure digital identities and access rights. IAM systems include a variety of functions, such as user provisioning, access control, identity governance, and compliance management. IAM systems ensure that only authorised users have access to specific resources and data and that their access is monitored and controlled.


Although the attacker does not know the password, they can still authenticate by replaying the same response. This attack is considered a replay attack


--A sys tem controls access to various resources based on the chosen model. Some of the common access control models are:

Discretionary Access Control (DAC):The whole process is straightforward and fully controlled by the data owner. It works very well for sharing with family members or a few company users. However, this can get tricky as you try to scale sharing with many users, especially as a user’s role changes over time. This situation brings us to sharing based on user roles.
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):An accountant needs to access the company accounting books but does not need to access research and development labs or documents. Consequently, users are put into different groups based on their roles. Authorisation and access will be granted based on the group to which a user belongs.

Classifying users based on their roles brings many advantages. For instance, if a user is tasked with a new role, all that is required is to add them to the new respective group. Moreover, if the users gave up a particular role, we only need to remove them from the old group. This approach makes maintenance more manageable and more efficient.
Mandatory Access Control (MAC):An operating system using Mandatory Access Control (MAC) would prioritise security and significantly limit users’ abilities. Such systems are used for specific purposes or to handle highly classified data. Consequently, users do not need to carry out tasks beyond the strictly necessary. In other words, users won’t be able to install new software or change file permissions.

AppArmor gives the ability to have MAC on a Linux distribution. It is already shipped with various Linux distributions, such as Debian and Ubuntu.

The SELinux project provides a flexible MAC for Linux systems. It is standard for several Linux distributions, such as Red Hat and Fedora



SSO Single sign on


